<chapter id="introduction">
  <title
>Inleiding</title>
  <para
>If you are like me you have thousands of images ever since you got your first camera, some taken with a normal camera other with a digital camera. Through all the years you believed that until eternity you would be able to remember the story behind every single picture, you would be able to remember the names of all the people on your images, and you would be able to remember the exact date of every single image. I personally realized that this was not possible anymore, and especially for my digital images - but also for my paper images - I needed a tool to help me describe my images, and to search in the pile of images. This is exactly what &kphotoalbum; is all about.</para>
  
  
  <para
>&kphotoalbum; focust zich op drie hoofdzaken: <itemizedlist>
      <listitem
><para
>It must be easy to annotate a number of images at a time. It must for example not take more than a few mouse clicks to mark all your images from your holiday as being from Italy, 1992. &kphotoalbum; offers two ways of describing images: <guilabel
>one at a time</guilabel
>, which is useful for writing text about images, and <guilabel
>All Simultaneously</guilabel
>, which is useful for selecting a number of images, and setting properties like location, people on images, and date of image.</para
></listitem>
      
      <listitem
><para
>It must be easy to search for images. &kphotoalbum; offers to describe images with a number of properties. These includes date, people, places, plus a keyword field the user can use for custom keywords like <emphasis
>Album 7</emphasis
> or <emphasis
>Holiday trip to Italy</emphasis
>. With &kphotoalbum; you can search for images in each of the categories - e.g. find all the images with Jesper on them from the holiday in Italy. It is of course possible to create your own categories, much more on that later.</para
></listitem
> 
      
      <listitem
><para
>It must be easy to browse and View the images. When viewing images, your focus often changes - one moment you are looking at images from your holiday in 1992, and when seeing an image of a friend whom you spent that holiday with, you focus suddenly changes, so you want to see all images of that friend.</para
></listitem>
    </itemizedlist
></para>
  
  <!-- ====================================================================== -->
  <sect1 id="sect-overview-of-manual">
    <title
>Overzicht van de handleiding</title>
    <para
>In deze handleiding neem ik u mee door de stappen van (1) het van annotaties voorzien van uw afbeeldingen, (2) browsen en bekijken van afbeeldingen en (3) geavanceerde onderwerpen en aan uw eigen wensen aanpassen.</para>

<para
>&kphotoalbum; started out as an application for managing your images, but since then it has been extended, so it today also takes care of your videos. In many places in this manual I will talk about images, but just as often the discussion does include videos.</para>
  

  </sect1>
  
  
  <!-- ====================================================================== -->
  <sect1 id="sec-organization-of-images-and-KPhotoAlbum-files">
    <title
>Organisatie van afbeeldingen en bestanden van &kphotoalbum;</title>
    <para
>&kphotoalbum; gebruikt de eerste keer dat u &kphotoalbum; start, alle afbeeldingen in een map en alle submappen eronder, waarbij u gevraagd wordt naar de locatie van deze map. &kphotoalbum; zal geen enkele afbeelding wijzigen, zodat u niet bang hoeft te zijn dat &kphotoalbum; uw afbeeldingen zal aanpassen <footnote
><para
>De twee uitzonderingen op deze regel zijn (1) als u &kphotoalbum; vraagt om individuele afbeeldingen te verwijderen, met <menuchoice
><guimenu
>Bewerken</guimenu
><guimenuitem
>Geselecteerden verwijderen</guimenuitem
></menuchoice
> en (2) bewerkingen in een plug-in.</para
></footnote
>, en als u &kphotoalbum; niet vertrouwt, voel u dan vrij om al uw afbeeldingen te beschermen tegen schrijven (alleen-lezen maken).</para>
    
    <para
>&kphotoalbum; zal al zijn informatie opslaan in het bestand <filename
>index.xml</filename
> in uw hoogste map met afbeeldingen. Dit bestand is een eenvoudig XML-bestand, zodat u er gemakkelijk een reservekopie met elk hulpmiddel van kan maken, inclusief normale hulpmiddelen voor reservekopieën, het bestand naar een USB-stick kopiëren of revisies met VCS bewaren. Er is ook een script voor het maken van een reservekopie (<emphasis
>kpa-backup.sh</emphasis
>) geleverd in de bronnen van &kphotoalbum; die niet alleen een reservekopie maakt van index.xml maar ook van de instellingsbestanden in de thuismap van de gebruiker.</para>
    
    <para
>&kphotoalbum; onthoudt waar u hem hebt verteld waar uw afbeeldingen zich bevinden en hergebruikt dat in toekomstig gebruik van &kphotoalbum;. Zou u ooit een andere database in &kphotoalbum; willen laden (dwz. een andere mappenboom van afbeeldingen), dan kunt u starten met de optie <option
>-c</option
> option. Bijvoorbeeld: <userinput
><command
>kphotoalbum</command
> <option
>-c</option
> <filename
>~/Bedrijfsafbeeldingen/index.xml</filename
></userinput
>.</para>
  </sect1>
</chapter>

<!-- Keep this comment at the end of the file
Local variables:
mode: xml
sgml-namecase-general:t
sgml-general-insert-case:lower
sgml-always-quote-attributes:t
sgml-indent-step:2
sgml-parent-document: "index.docbook"
End:
-->
