  <chapter id="chp-generating-html">
    <title
>Generating HTML</title>
    <para
>&kphotoalbum; offers two possibilities for generating HTML from your photo album. One is the implementation build into &kphotoalbum;, the other is available as an plugin (see <xref linkend="chp-plugins"/>). This section will describe the build in version, which you may find in the menubar <menuchoice
><guimenu
>File</guimenu
><guimenuitem
>Generate HTML</guimenuitem
></menuchoice
></para>
    
    <para
>Before HTML pages are generated, you need to specify a bit of information, split over the three pages <guilabel
>Content</guilabel
>, <guilabel
>Layout</guilabel
> and <guilabel
>Destination</guilabel
>. The following section describes each page in detail.</para>

    <sect1 id="the_content_page">
      <title
>A página de <guilabel
>Conteúdo</guilabel
></title>
      <para
>In the content page you specify which information should be generated to the HTML pages.</para>

      <para
>First you specify the title of the overview pages, plus a description generated on these pages. See <ulink url="http://www.kphotoalbum.org/rounded-theme/index.html"
>&kphotoalbum; example HTML pages</ulink
> to see an example of this.</para>

      <para
>Next you specify whether a &kphotoalbum; export file should be generated, and put on the overview page. See <xref linkend="chp-importExport"/> for details on export files.</para>

      <para
>Finally you may specify which information should be generated on the HTML pages. This way you may skip generating information which might be obvious to the reader of the pages (say these images was from the party we all attended). Notice, &kphotoalbum; does currently not allow you to exclude certain categories from the export file, so don't rely on this as a way of excluding information you do not want readers of your pages to see.</para>
    </sect1>

    <sect1 id="the_layout_page">
      <title
>A página de <guilabel
>Disposição</guilabel
></title>
      <para
>On the layout page you specify what your HTML pages should look like. Most of the options on this page are straight forward, and do not need further description here.</para>

      <para
>No fundo desta página é possível indicar várias resoluções para as imagens. Desta forma, as pessoas que vejam as suas páginas não são forçadas a transferir as imagens com grandes resoluções, como por exemplo 1600x1200, para as ver num monitor que não dê mais do que 800x600.</para>
      
      <para
>Em qualquer altura os seus leitores poderão alterar a resolução, dentro das que você seleccionou. Desta forma, eles poderão navegar pelas suas imagens com uma resolução baixa (e, deste modo, com um tempo mais rápido de transferência) e, quando quiserem ver uma imagem especialmente interessante, possam mudar para uma resolução alta.</para>
    </sect1>

    <sect1 id="the_destination_page">
      <title
>A página de <guilabel
>Destino</guilabel
></title>
      <para
>On the destination page you specify several directories and URL's specifying where your pages goes.</para>

      <para
>A filosofia será que você indica uma pasta de base para todos os itens gerados e para cada categoria de itens, indica uma nova subpasta.</para>

      <para
>First you need to specify the base directory for all your images. This directory will be remembered from session to session, and allows you to once and for all tell where all subsequent images should go. Here you may specify a directory, or any <ulink url="help:/kioslave/index.html"
>protocol</ulink
> supported by KDE. Examples includes: <itemizedlist>
          <listitem
><para
>ftp://servidor/area-envio/imagens (enviar através de FTP)</para
></listitem>
          <listitem
><para
>fish://servidor/home/xpto/imagens (enviar por SSH)</para
></listitem>
          <listitem
><para
>smb://servidor/c/imagens (enviar para uma partilha de Windows)</para
></listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
      </para>
      
      <para
>Once you are done generating your images, you may want to check whether they are really available to your audience. If you specify a URL in the <guilabel
>Base URL</guilabel
> line edit, a web browser will be spawned once HTML pages has been generated. The URL you specify here should match the directory you specified above. Thus the web browser will be started on the subdirectories of this URL.</para>
      
      <para
>Once you have generated HTML pages, your pages may still not be in their final destination, you may still need special upload procedures out of the control of &kphotoalbum;. For the Import feature (see <xref linkend="chp-importExport"/>) to work, you need to specify the final destination of the pages. Again this does not include the subdirectory of the current generation.</para>

      <para
>Os três campos de texto descritos acima são URLs e pastas de base. Nestas localizações, uma subpasta nova será criada com o nome que indicou na <guilabel
>Pasta do Resultado</guilabel
>.</para>
    </sect1>

</chapter>


<!-- Keep this comment at the end of the file
Local variables:
mode: xml
sgml-namecase-general:t
sgml-general-insert-case:lower
sgml-always-quote-attributes:t
sgml-indent-step:2
sgml-parent-document: "index.docbook"
End:
-->
